README.md, before:

# [Colorful.Console](http://colorfulconsole.com/)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/hf7y1un65mdfkfbx?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/tomakita/colorful-console)

**Colorful.Console** is a C# library that wraps around the `System.Console` class, exposing enhanced styling functionality.

![Colorful.Console icon](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/colorful_icon_ngsize.png)

# How to Get It

- Download [`Colorful.Console`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Colorful.Console) from NuGet.
- Perform a Git clone
> git clone https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console.git

# Basic Usage
```c#
using System;
using System.Drawing;
using Console = Colorful.Console;
...
...
Console.WriteLine("console in pink", Color.Pink);
Console.WriteLine("console in default");
```
![Basic Example](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/basic_x.png)


# Write With Full System.Drawing.Color Support
```c#
int r = 225;
int g = 255;
int b = 250;
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine(storyFragments[i], Color.FromArgb(r, g, b));

    r -= 18;
    b -= 9;
}
```
![Write With Full System.Drawing.Color Support](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/rgb_x.png)


# Format Text Using Two Colors
```c#
string dream = "a dream of {0} and {1} and {2} and {3} and {4} and {5} and {6} and {7} and {8} and {9}...";
string[] fruits = new string[]
{
    "bananas",
    "strawberries",
    "mangoes",
    "pineapples",
    "cherries",
    "oranges",
    "apples",
    "peaches",
    "plums",
    "melons"
};

Console.WriteLineFormatted(dream, Color.LightGoldenrodYellow, Color.Gray, fruits);
```
![Format Text Using Two Colors](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/formatter_x1.png)


# Format Text Using Several Colors
```c#
string dream = "a dream of {0} and {1} and {2} and {3} and {4} and {5} and {6} and {7} and {8} and {9}...";
Formatter[] fruits = new Formatter[]
{
    new Formatter("bananas", Color.LightGoldenrodYellow),
    new Formatter("strawberries", Color.Pink),
    new Formatter("mangoes", Color.PeachPuff),
    new Formatter("pineapples", Color.Yellow),
    new Formatter("cherries", Color.Red),
    new Formatter("oranges", Color.Orange),
    new Formatter("apples", Color.LawnGreen),
    new Formatter("peaches", Color.MistyRose),
    new Formatter("plums", Color.Indigo),
    new Formatter("melons", Color.LightGreen),
};

Console.WriteLineFormatted(dream, Color.Gray, fruits);
```
![Format Text Using Several Colors](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/formatter_x2.png)


# Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on Number of Console Writes
```c#
ColorAlternatorFactory alternatorFactory = new ColorAlternatorFactory();
ColorAlternator alternator = alternatorFactory.GetAlternator(2, Color.Plum, Color.PaleVioletRed);

for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLineAlternating("cats", alternator);
}
```
![Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on Number of Console Writes](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/alternator_x2.png)


# Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on 1 or More Regular Expressions
```c#
ColorAlternatorFactory alternatorFactory = new ColorAlternatorFactory();
ColorAlternator alternator = alternatorFactory.GetAlternator(new[] { "hiss", "m[a-z]+w" }, Color.Plum, Color.PaleVioletRed);

for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
{
    string catMessage = "cats";

    if (i % 3 == 0)
    {
        catMessage = meowVariant[meowCounter++];
    }
    else if (i % 10 == 0)
    {
        catMessage = "hiss";
    }

    Console.WriteLineAlternating(catMessage, alternator);
}
```
![Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on 1 or More Regular Expressions](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/alternator_x1.png)


# Style Specific Regions of Text
```c#
StyleSheet styleSheet = new StyleSheet(Color.White);
styleSheet.AddStyle("rain[a-z]*", Color.MediumSlateBlue);

Console.WriteLineStyled(storyAboutRain, styleSheet);
```
![Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on 1 or More Regular Expressions](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/styler_x1.png)


# Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Simple Transformation
```c#
StyleSheet styleSheet = new StyleSheet(Color.White);
styleSheet.AddStyle("rain[a-z]*", Color.MediumSlateBlue, match => match.ToUpper());

Console.WriteLineStyled(storyAboutRain, styleSheet);
```
![Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Simple Transformation](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/styler_x2.png)


# Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Transformation Based on Surrounding Text
```c#
StyleSheet styleSheet = new StyleSheet(Color.White);
styleSheet.AddStyle("rain[a-z]*", Color.MediumSlateBlue,
    (unstyledInput, matchLocation, match) =>
    {
        if (unstyledInput[matchLocation.End] == '.')
        {
            return "marshmallows";
        }
        else
        {
            return "s'mores";
        }
    });

Console.WriteLineStyled(storyAboutRain, styleSheet);
```
![Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Simple Transformation](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/styler_x3.png)


# Convert Text to ASCII Art Using a Default Font
```c#
int DA = 244;
int V = 212;
int ID = 255;
for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++)
{
    Console.WriteAscii("HASSELHOFF", Color.FromArgb(DA, V, ID));

    DA -= 18;
    V -= 36;
}
```
![Convert Text to ASCII Art Using a Default Font](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/ascii_x1.png)


# Convert Text to ASCII Art Using [FIGlet](http://www.figlet.org/) Fonts
```c#
FigletFont font = FigletFont.Load("chunky.flf");
Figlet figlet = new Figlet(font);

Console.WriteLine(figlet.ToAscii("Belvedere"), ColorTranslator.FromHtml("#8AFFEF"));
Console.WriteLine(figlet.ToAscii("ice"), ColorTranslator.FromHtml("#FAD6FF"));
Console.WriteLine(figlet.ToAscii("cream."), ColorTranslator.FromHtml("#B8DBFF"));
```
![Convert Text to ASCII Art Using a Default Font](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/ascii_x2.png)


# Style Collections With a Gradient
```c#
List<char> chars = new List<char>()
{
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm',
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm',
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm',
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm'
};
Console.WriteWithGradient(chars, Color.Yellow, Color.Fuchsia, 14);
```
![Style Collections With a Gradient](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/gradw_x.png)


# Usage Notes

Console colors can be set back to their defaults using the `Colorful.Console.ReplaceAllColorsWithDefaults` function.

Individual colors in the console's color palette can be replaced using the `Colorful.Console.ReplaceColor` function. 

**Colorful.Console** can only write to the console in 16 different colors (including the black that's used as the console's background, by default!) in a single console session. This is a limitation of the Windows console itself (ref: [MSDN](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms682091(v=vs.85).aspx)), and it's one that we weren't able to work our way around.  If you know of a workaround, let us know!

Commit message:

256 Color functionality for Windows Terminal
- Only Implemented the codes from <https://github.com/AlexeiScherbakov/Colorful.Console/commit/0c000e1254f6fce76e7d492cc6a35a5c9ca4a53f>
which fixed and support the Virtual Terminal 256 Color functionality (Thanks to him)
- You can now build with VS2022
- Ps. I can't be able to build from his repo because of incompatibility of Visual Studio

README.md, after:

# [Colorful.Console](http://colorfulconsole.com/)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/hf7y1un65mdfkfbx?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/tomakita/colorful-console)

**Colorful.Console** is a C# library that wraps around the `System.Console` class, exposing enhanced styling functionality.

## ABOUT THIS UPDATE

- Only Implemented the codes from <https://github.com/AlexeiScherbakov/Colorful.Console/commit/0c000e1254f6fce76e7d492cc6a35a5c9ca4a53f>
which fixed and support the Virtual Terminal 256 Color functionality (Thanks to him)
- You can now build with VS2022
- Ps. I can't be able to build from his repo because of incompatibility of Visual Studio

---

# How to Get It

- Download [`Colorful.Console`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Colorful.Console) from NuGet.
- Perform a Git clone
> git clone https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console.git

# Basic Usage
```c#
using System;
using System.Drawing;
using Console = Colorful.Console;
...
...
Console.WriteLine("console in pink", Color.Pink);
Console.WriteLine("console in default");
```
![Basic Example](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/basic_x.png)


# Write With Full System.Drawing.Color Support
```c#
int r = 225;
int g = 255;
int b = 250;
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine(storyFragments[i], Color.FromArgb(r, g, b));

    r -= 18;
    b -= 9;
}
```
![Write With Full System.Drawing.Color Support](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/rgb_x.png)


# Format Text Using Two Colors
```c#
string dream = "a dream of {0} and {1} and {2} and {3} and {4} and {5} and {6} and {7} and {8} and {9}...";
string[] fruits = new string[]
{
    "bananas",
    "strawberries",
    "mangoes",
    "pineapples",
    "cherries",
    "oranges",
    "apples",
    "peaches",
    "plums",
    "melons"
};

Console.WriteLineFormatted(dream, Color.LightGoldenrodYellow, Color.Gray, fruits);
```
![Format Text Using Two Colors](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/formatter_x1.png)


# Format Text Using Several Colors
```c#
string dream = "a dream of {0} and {1} and {2} and {3} and {4} and {5} and {6} and {7} and {8} and {9}...";
Formatter[] fruits = new Formatter[]
{
    new Formatter("bananas", Color.LightGoldenrodYellow),
    new Formatter("strawberries", Color.Pink),
    new Formatter("mangoes", Color.PeachPuff),
    new Formatter("pineapples", Color.Yellow),
    new Formatter("cherries", Color.Red),
    new Formatter("oranges", Color.Orange),
    new Formatter("apples", Color.LawnGreen),
    new Formatter("peaches", Color.MistyRose),
    new Formatter("plums", Color.Indigo),
    new Formatter("melons", Color.LightGreen),
};

Console.WriteLineFormatted(dream, Color.Gray, fruits);
```
![Format Text Using Several Colors](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/formatter_x2.png)


# Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on Number of Console Writes
```c#
ColorAlternatorFactory alternatorFactory = new ColorAlternatorFactory();
ColorAlternator alternator = alternatorFactory.GetAlternator(2, Color.Plum, Color.PaleVioletRed);

for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLineAlternating("cats", alternator);
}
```
![Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on Number of Console Writes](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/alternator_x2.png)


# Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on 1 or More Regular Expressions
```c#
ColorAlternatorFactory alternatorFactory = new ColorAlternatorFactory();
ColorAlternator alternator = alternatorFactory.GetAlternator(new[] { "hiss", "m[a-z]+w" }, Color.Plum, Color.PaleVioletRed);

for (int i = 0; i < 15; i++)
{
    string catMessage = "cats";

    if (i % 3 == 0)
    {
        catMessage = meowVariant[meowCounter++];
    }
    else if (i % 10 == 0)
    {
        catMessage = "hiss";
    }

    Console.WriteLineAlternating(catMessage, alternator);
}
```
![Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on 1 or More Regular Expressions](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/alternator_x1.png)


# Style Specific Regions of Text
```c#
StyleSheet styleSheet = new StyleSheet(Color.White);
styleSheet.AddStyle("rain[a-z]*", Color.MediumSlateBlue);

Console.WriteLineStyled(storyAboutRain, styleSheet);
```
![Alternate Between 2 or More Colors Based on 1 or More Regular Expressions](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/styler_x1.png)


# Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Simple Transformation
```c#
StyleSheet styleSheet = new StyleSheet(Color.White);
styleSheet.AddStyle("rain[a-z]*", Color.MediumSlateBlue, match => match.ToUpper());

Console.WriteLineStyled(storyAboutRain, styleSheet);
```
![Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Simple Transformation](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/styler_x2.png)


# Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Transformation Based on Surrounding Text
```c#
StyleSheet styleSheet = new StyleSheet(Color.White);
styleSheet.AddStyle("rain[a-z]*", Color.MediumSlateBlue,
    (unstyledInput, matchLocation, match) =>
    {
        if (unstyledInput[matchLocation.End] == '.')
        {
            return "marshmallows";
        }
        else
        {
            return "s'mores";
        }
    });

Console.WriteLineStyled(storyAboutRain, styleSheet);
```
![Style Specific Regions of Text, Performing a Simple Transformation](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/styler_x3.png)


# Convert Text to ASCII Art Using a Default Font
```c#
int DA = 244;
int V = 212;
int ID = 255;
for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++)
{
    Console.WriteAscii("HASSELHOFF", Color.FromArgb(DA, V, ID));

    DA -= 18;
    V -= 36;
}
```
![Convert Text to ASCII Art Using a Default Font](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/ascii_x1.png)


# Convert Text to ASCII Art Using [FIGlet](http://www.figlet.org/) Fonts
```c#
FigletFont font = FigletFont.Load("chunky.flf");
Figlet figlet = new Figlet(font);

Console.WriteLine(figlet.ToAscii("Belvedere"), ColorTranslator.FromHtml("#8AFFEF"));
Console.WriteLine(figlet.ToAscii("ice"), ColorTranslator.FromHtml("#FAD6FF"));
Console.WriteLine(figlet.ToAscii("cream."), ColorTranslator.FromHtml("#B8DBFF"));
```
![Convert Text to ASCII Art Using a Default Font](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/ascii_x2.png)


# Style Collections With a Gradient
```c#
List<char> chars = new List<char>()
{
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm',
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm',
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm',
	'r', 'e', 'x', 's', 'z', 'q', 'j', 'w', 't', 'a', 'b', 'c', 'l', 'm'
};
Console.WriteWithGradient(chars, Color.Yellow, Color.Fuchsia, 14);
```
![Style Collections With a Gradient](https://github.com/tomakita/Colorful.Console/blob/master/static/gradw_x.png)


# Usage Notes

Console colors can be set back to their defaults using the `Colorful.Console.ReplaceAllColorsWithDefaults` function.

Individual colors in the console's color palette can be replaced using the `Colorful.Console.ReplaceColor` function. 

**Colorful.Console** can only write to the console in 16 different colors (including the black that's used as the console's background, by default!) in a single console session. This is a limitation of the Windows console itself (ref: [MSDN](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms682091(v=vs.85).aspx)), and it's one that we weren't able to work our way around.  If you know of a workaround, let us know!
